## Week Two - Module 2 Recap

Fork this respository. Answer the questions to the best of your ability. Try to answer them with limited amount of external research. These questions cover the majority of what we've learned this week (which is a TON - YOU are a web developer!!!).

Note: When you're done, submit a PR.

1. At a high level, what is ActiveRecord? What does it do/allow you to do? It's an ORM that allows us to query data from our database and turns it into Ruby objects.  It's the model part of MVC and through inheritance, allows us to make the SQL database queries without actually writing raw SQL.

2. Assume you have the following model:

```ruby
class Team << ActiveRecord::Base
end
```

What are some methods you can call on `Team`? If these methods aren't defined in the class, how do you have access to them?
.all, .first, .find, .group, .order...
Through inheritance from ActiveRecord.

3. Assume that in your database, a team has the following attributes: "id", "name", owner_id". How would you find the name of a team with an id of 4? Assuming your class only included the code from question 2, how could you find the owner of the same team?

owner_id = Team.find(4).owner_id

Owner.find(owner_id)


4. Assume that you added a line to your `Team` class as follows:

```ruby
class Team << ActiveRecord::Base
  belongs_to :owner
end
```

Now how would you find the owner of the team with an id of 4?

Team.find(4).owner

5. In a database that's holding students and teachers, what will be the relationship between students and teachers? Draw the schema diagram.

Teacher has many students, student belongs to teacher.

Not sure what it means to draw the schema diagram... the student table would have a column for teacher_id, which would be the foreign key.  Is that what you mean?


6. Define foreign key, primary key, and schema.

A foreign key is a unique identifier associated with a row of another table (most often the other table's primary key, since it should be unique).  A primary key is a unique identifier (usually an autoincrement value assigned as the database table is being created) for each row of a given table. A schema is essentially the structure of your database tables--it's autogenerated after you run your migrations.

7. Describe the relationship between a foreign key on one table and a primary key on another table.
  The primary key on one table usually becomes the foreign key on another, since they are both unique identifiers.  The foreign key gets added to the table that "belongs to" the other table.  E.g., in the student/teacher example, the teacher_id (primary key on the teacher table) would be associated with students by adding a column to the student table.  Each student would then be associated with one teacher id.  The teacher_id on the student table would then be the foreign key.

8. What are the parts of an HTTP response?
  1) Protocol, status code, description--essentially, whether the request was successful or not, with a little bit of supporting detail.
  2) HTTP response header: HTTP response header--information about the server environment
  3) HTTP response body: the actual response information, the HTML that will actually be rendered to the user


### Optional Questions

1. Name your five favorite ActiveRecord methods (i.e. methods your models inherit from ActiveRecord) and describe what they do.
  -.order(column_name, optional DESC): I love this guy. Orders the objects in the table by a certain attribute. It defaults to order from least to greatest, but you can specify descending order and then it will order from greatest to least. Amazing for finding the row of the column with the max or min value.

  -.max/.min(column_name): finds the greatest or least value in a given column of the database based on the attribute that you pass in. Doesn't give you the whole object, but super handy.

  -.find(id): allows you to search the database for the row that matches the id that you passed in.

  -.first: returns the first row of the database that you're querying. Nice when you just want a single instance of an object from that table.

  -.where(column_name: value): gives you all of the rows from the database that match the parameter that you passed in.  Ridiculously useful. 

2. Name your three favorite ActiveRecord rake tasks and describe what they do.
  I'm actually not sure what are ActiveRecord rake tasks and what are regular rake tasks. So I'm just going to name rake tasks I like.  
    -rake routes: allows you to see all of the url paths as defined by your router(I think?) using RESTful routes
    -rake db:create: actually creates your databases
    -rake db:migrate: runs the migrations that haven't been run yet

3. What two columns does `t.timestamps null: false` create in our database?
  created_at, updated_at

4. In a database that's holding schools and teachers, what will be the relationship between schools and teachers?
  school has many teachers, teachers belong to school

5. In the same database, what will you need to do to create this relationship (draw a schema diagram)?
  Not super clear on schema diagram, but add a column to teachers called school_id.  Each teacher would be associated with the id of the school that he/she belongs to.

6. Give an example of when you might want to store information besides ids on a join table.
  If you want other attributes besides the id relationship? This answer seems a bit obvious, but not exactly sure what else to go for here?

7. Describe and diagram the relationship between patients and doctors.
8. Describe and diagram the relationship between museums and original_paintings.

9. What could you see in your code that would make you think you might want to create a partial?
  What is a partial?
